# 万能理由
>> 1. 忙，省时间
>>> As a college student, I am overwhelmed with lots of assignments and I have to prepare for exams, do presentations, do group projects, and stuff like that. 

>> 2. 穷，省钱
>>> As a college student, I am on a tight budget since I have to spend money on different things, like paying expensive tuitions, covering my living expenses, you know, things like room and board, utility bills and stuff like that. Actually, saving up some money should be a top priority to me.

>> 3.和不同文化背景的人学习交流，社交、旅游、大公司工作 
>>> I can make friends from distinctive cultural backgrounds, thus I can get to know their customs and ways of living. By interacting with them, I can broaden my horizon and have new perspectives on things. When exchanging ideas with others, we can find different solutions to the same problem. Eventually I can be a well-rounded person.

>> 4.放松，爱好、活动
>>> When I ……， I don't need to think about anything else but focus on it. It's a great way to get rid of stress and release my destructive emotions like depression, sorrow and even rage(愤怒). When I go back to my study, I can be more productive.

>> 5.合作 ，小组学习，集体活动，和他人一起工作
>>> When working in a group, people have different responsibilities. We need to work closely with each other to finish the project together. In this process, we can get a chance to develop cooperation awareness, which will be very useful in a professional environment. / It definitely gives me a better shot to find a job in the future. 

>> 6.成就感  帮助他人
>>> It is rewarding and meaningfuL. When I do these activities, I feel like I have something to offer to others and I feel I am needed by the society. It gives me a great sense of achievement. 

>> 7.永不言弃，坚定实现目标，追逐梦想
>>> Even though I might have many setbacks and barriers in my life, I should be motivated to achieve my goals and hold fast to dreams.

>> 8.互联网省时间
>>> All you need is Wi-Fi access and a laptop, and one doesn’t have to commute from one place to another. Thus, one can save lots of valuable time and use the time to focus on other important stuff.

>> 9.饮食健康
>>> I think getting balanced nutrient is really important and we should eat vegetables like tomatoes, broccoli, cucumber and even cauliflower(西兰花、黄瓜，花椰菜). They are rich in vitamin and low in calories. Thus, I can keep healthy by eating lots of vegetables.

>> 10.运动，健康
>>> It is a good way for us to stay in good shape since we can burn lots of calories by doing these activities.

>> 11.新能源
>>> We should not just burn coals. Instead, the use of clean and renewable energies should be encouraged like tide, wind, solar power, and even nuclear power. Since they don't pollute the air, people will enjoy better health. 

>> 12.公共交通
>>> I think sharing program of public transports like train, subway, bus and even public bike should be encouraged. Only in this way can we reduce exhaust discharged by vehicles.

>> 13.环境变好
>>> Eventually people can have a better environment, making the world a better place to live in.

>> 14.朋友
>>> As the saying goes, “Birds of the same feather flock together.” When spending time with people who have the same hobby, I will have so much to talk about and we can share perspectives with each other.

>>> 15.自律

Personally speaking / As far as I am concerned / Frankly speaking

# 黄金口语80题
## 物品类
>> 1 useful book
>>> Personally speaking, the most useful book for me is The story of My life by Helen Keller. It tells the real story of the author's life before the age of 21, including the life experience of how did she overcome the pain and despair who is blind and deaf, finally broke through the darkness and felt the light inside.（万能理由梦想） She taught me that even though I might have many setbacks and barriers in my life, I should be motivated to achieve my goals and hold fast to dreams. Additionally, I should cherish life and care others.
 
>> 2 TV programs 正负面影响 / 5 空间时间做什么（kill time） / 8 newspaper, TV, teacher 哪个对你的影响更大/  41.What will you do to relax yourself
>>> Personally, I agree that TV programs have positive effects on modern society. (I definitely think that it is TV that influences me most among the three.)
First, from the news broadcasting in the television, we are informed of what is happening in the outside world even without stepping out our rooms. TV programs specializes into various channels, lots of channels can satisty my view such as news, sports and films. And second, （万能理由放松） When I ……， I don't need to think about anything else but focus on it. It's a great way to get rid of stress and release my destructive emotions like depression, sorrow and even rage. When I go back to my study, I can be more productive.

>> 3 most important decision
>>> The most important decision that I went to Nanjing University and chose public administration as my major. 
First, It's of great importance because it determines where I were and what I learnt in the past four years. I understand the organizational structure and personnel management of the government, and know how the government makes policies to affect society. Second, I made several lifelong friends from distinctive cultural backgrounds, who make my life more interesting and meaningful. They always support me when I am in trouble.

>> 4 high school 不用教musich and art
>>> I bet no one could deny that the main responsibility of a high school is to help its students develop various abilities not only the academic abilities. Music and art can help the students appreciate beauty in our lives, and that will broaden knowledge scope of students. 
万能句1 忙 + 放松 

>> 6 是否有必要禁止在某些场合使用手机
>>> From my perspective, I think it's necessary to prohibit people from using phone calls in some places for two reasons. For security reasons, people mustn't use telephone while filling up with gas in gas station and driving cars on the road. Otherwise，it will be dangerous and cause some accident. // For public good will reasons, people shouldn't pick a phone call when they are in the quiet place such as library, movie theater, or important meeting, which will make other people get distracted. So phone calls should be prohibited in some circumstances.

>> 7 & 9 难忘时刻/重要节日 
>>> Speaking of celebrations, there is one day of the year that is second to none in my country, which is called the Spring Festival. It is the first day of the year in lunar calendar. Even if you are indifferent with festive events, you cannot resist the charm that the whole country is off and people go home to have a family reunion dinner. And during the dinner, family members make toasts for each other in order to wish for joy, peace, health and fortune for the next year. I love this festival and I think it allows me to depart from bad luck with the past.

>>  选择就餐最关心的是？ 
>>> Actually, when I go to a restaurant or cafe I only care about some basic features. First of all, the most important thing I'm concerned with is the sanitary condition.（卫生状况）It's directly related to consumers' health, you will feel uncomfortable to sit down in a dirty house and use the dirty dishware. In addition, I think a good service is also necessary. I don't want to wait for a meal for a long time and the waiter or waitress shouldn't give you a cold face at least. Besides, the taste of foods also plays a crucial role for me to judge a restaurant or cafe.

>> 10 政府是否应该协助建立博物馆和电影院？  
>>>I totally agree with that government should help build artistic places such as museums and theatres.For one thing, these types of places serve as exhibition centers for citizens to know about the history and culture of the country. It can help us to regain the passion for beauty and depth in life, which is much better than being an internet addict or a couch potato. Second, building museum and theater is always costly and nonprofit, therefore individuals may find it hard to build them. Government should rationally utilize taxes to benefit people enhance their culture. So I support that the government should invest money to build more museums and theatres.

>> 11 南京最喜欢的地方 / 你最喜欢去的公共场所，给出具体例子 & 12 你什么时候和朋友在一起 / 你和朋友在一起最喜欢去哪个地方？
>>> My favorite public place is the Library of Nanjing University. Firstly, I like the atmosphere of learning together, which motivates me. In contrast, I can hardly resist the temptation of sleeping while studying in the dormitory. Secondly, there are many books in the library. During my undergraduate period, I borrowed more than 400 books, including various professional books and novels. Finally, I like the big tables and chairs in the library, which can help me quickly enter the learning state and improve my learning efficiency.

>> 13 你喜欢在家吃饭还是餐厅吃 & 17 和朋友在一起，喜欢在餐厅，咖啡馆还是在家
>>> I prefer eating at home to dining out for many reasons. First of all, as a college student, I am on a tight budget since I have to spend money on different things,
such as tuitions and living expenses. Actually, saving up some money should be a top priority to me, so it's much cheaper to eat at home. Besides, I'm concerned with the sanitary condition and food safety. It's directly related to my health, I will feel uncomfortable to sit down in a dirty house, use the dirty dishware and eat unfresh food. Lastly, we can cook our specialty dishes and have fun.

>> 14 大学选在大城市，还是小城镇
>>> I definitely prefer to study in a big city. The most common reason for us to study is to find a good job, and there are much more job opportunities in big cities than the small town. If I study in the big cities, I can do an internship while studying, and seize the opportunity to work there after I graduate from university. Moreover, jobs in big cities can offer more decent salary. So that's why I think big cities are much more attractive for me to study in.

>> 15 novel、magazine和poetry 你最喜欢哪种文学形式
>>> I like fictions the most. They can soothe me when I'm tired and wanna have a little break, you just need to sit down to enjoy the story in a fiction, just imagining what has happened according to the description, as if you were watching a movie.For other types of reading materials, although poems may be of great literature values, but sometimes they are difficult to understand. When I turn to them, I'm just looking for a way of relaxation rather than another type of learning.
Magazines are always expensive and contain lots of advertisements. So I really prefer fictions to the others.

>> 16 自己住和其他人一起住
>>> I prefer to live with others. First of all, living with someone else won't make me feel lonely, which is a good way to make friends. Through living with others, I will know how to get along with different person and how to care others.  Second, if I have some problems about the study or work, I can ask for help from my roommates. Maybe they will analysis existing circumstance and give me some advice, which will benefit my make better decisions. So I'd like someone to live with me.

>> 18 电脑提高生活 or 带来很多问题  / 31 电脑还是专业书有利于做研究
>>> In my opinion, I think that it is the Internet that helps us save lots of time and get more information. Firstly, if you wanna communicate with others, all you need is Wi-Fi access and a laptop and one doesn't have to commute from one place to another. Thus, one can save lots of valuable time and use the time to focus on other important stuff. In other circumstance, you can get maybe ten thousand pages of useful information from the search engine with a clck on the button of your mouse instead of reading numerous academic books.


>> 20 在家办公 or 去办公室办公
>>> I'd prefer to work in an office. Firstly, although working at home may be comfortable, but it's kind of difficult for me to be fully-devoted to work.Maybe I'll want to watch TV, surf the Internet or even want to take a nap during work time. So it isn't efficient to work at home. Moreover, it's more convenient to communicate with your co-workers or boss when you work in an office, thus you can get the assignment more directly and solve problems by negotiating with other employees, which helps you do better and learn faster. So I prefer the traditional way to work in an office.


>> 21 高等教育只适合特定的人 or 适合所有学生
>>> I definitely think that the university should be open to all students. No one could deny the fact that the responsibility of a university is to help as many students as it can to develop their academic abilities and be well prepared for their further careers. It is a right for every student who needs education to enter into universities no matter he/she is rich or poor. Additionally, with a college degree, you'll get more chances of future career success. although there are some role models such as Bill Gates, I still believe for common people, attending college will make them respected by the society and give them more opportunities of promotion.

>> 22 家长是否应该引导孩子看电视？
>>> I think parents should guide their children when they watch TV. First of all, children are not mature enough to realize which TV programs are suitable for them.
Without a proper guidence, children may have been misled by some unhealthy TV programs.Moreover, parents play an important role in helping children distinguish what's true and what's false, what's good and what's evil, what's beautiful and what's ugly by comparing the situation in TV programs and reality.Besides, parents are also responsible for preventing children from being obsessed with watching TV.So I agree with that parents should be able to guide their children when they watch TV.

## 时间类
## 教育类

## 人物类
>> 19 好老师的特征 / **谁是你最佩服的人，举例子**
>>> A good teacher should bear many excellent qualities. First of all, a teacher should have outstanding teaching ability and an open mind. In other words, it’s important to be good at encouraging students to think, decide and attempt, and the teacher should be willing to learn and accept new things. Furthermore, a teacher is supposed to be patient and sincere to all the students even though they make mistakes in class. A teacher should also be an honest and humble person, who opens heart to surrounding people and never refuses to acknowledge her shortcomings, even to her students. These qualities can make a good teacher.

>>> I will introduce my teacher Mr.Yu to you. He is an English teacher and a president of new oriental school’s. there are many good qualities reflected by him such as persistence and kind.
Firstly, his persistence to his dream is mostly attracts me. He spares no efforts to realize his dream of peking university for many years.
Secondly, he is very kind to the talents and services to the ordinary people. The reasons for the new oriental’s growing not only because there are so many excellent teacher's willing to join in but also because these talents willing to stay in this place where is full of passion and dream. 
You can not help being attracted by his magnetic personality which seems contagious to people around him.


>> 28 Characteristics of friends
>>> In my opinion a good friend should have the following qualities: supportive and caring. 
It is a well known saying that a friend in need is a friend indeed. Therefore, a friend should stand by you in the hour of any sort of need. They can be my friends in sunshine and in shade. They can make me feel a definite sense of trust. Then he/she should be very caring. When I am suffering hard times, or confronting difficulties, he/she can give me a hand and help me overcome the troubles. Also, I’d love to spend more time with someone who can make me laugh and is fun to be around. 


>> 35.What do you think are the characteristics of a good parent?
>>> As far as I am concerned, a good parent should has the following qualities such as responsible, patience and be well-educated. We do admit that parents are the first and most important teacher of children. They will have a significant influence on mentality and attitude of children toward the world. So a parent should be well-educated and responsible for children. We also can not deny that feeding a baby is a hard work, it needs great patience and responsibility. 



>> 23 大学是应该向所有人开放还是只对一部分学生开放
>>> I definitely think that the university should be open to all students. It is a right for every student who needs education to enter into universities no matter he/she is rich or poor. The more well-educated students the universities produce, the fast speed of development our society will have. To suddenly think of a word is already not quite remember who said: Only to rely on investment equipment and infrastructure is not a long-term development way for a strong state, trying to improve the whole national quality and to invest in training people in education is the long-term development path.
 
>> 24 家长是否应该让小孩自行决定看电视的内容
>>>I think parents should lead their children to watch TV. First of all, according to some statistics, most of the children don’t have the ability to distinguish fantasy and reality in front of the advertisement in TV, so children are not mature enough to realize which TV programs are suit for them. Without a proper guide, children may have been misled by some unhealthy TV programs. Moreover, parents play an important role in helping children distinguish true and false, good and evil, beauty and ugly by comparing the situation in TV programs and reality,. Besides, parents are also responsible for preventing children from being obsessed in watching TV. 

>> 25 最有效的交通方式
>>> The most efficient transportation in my country, I’d say, is subway. Compared with cars and other transportations, subway is mostly convenient. It almost covers every corner in our city. And second, it has high speed compared with bicycle, you don’t have to worry about your time, traffic jam and parking space. What’s more, subway is more eco-friendly than car, it has nothing to do with air pollution at all. So frankly speaking, subway is the best transportation for you in china. 

>> 26 近100年最important的invention之一
>>> As far as I am concerned, television is the most important invention of the last 100 years. First, from the news broadcasting in the television, we can know what is happening in the outside world even without stepping out our living room with television in it. And second, watching television with family members after supper is a good way to relax after a hard day’s work. What’s more, its visual effect makes people feel less stressed and has a great influence on the way people think and talk.

>> 27 attend college是否比不读college容易successful in career ,why?
>>> I definitely agree to statement that attending college will make one more successful in career. As we all know that there are many factors contribute to success, such as your personality, knowledge and experience accumulation and opportunities. However, the education level is a fundamental to success for the following reasons. First of all, you can get well-educated in a certain area. And this experience will make you fully prepared for your future career. secondly, the learning process will broaden your horizon, enhance your various abilities and give you a chance to make more professional talents. All of these are a precious wealth to your success. 


>> 29 Someone suggests school to cut the Recycling
>>> I tend to disagree with cutting the recycling in school. Firstly, recycling can remind students of the importance of environmental protection. With a recycling system, students will discard garbage into the special recycling garbage boxes instead of throw them away randomly in campus. In addition, school can employ workers to deal with the garbage regularly, it can also provide a job chance for people with low-income. So for these two reasons, I support that the recycling in school should continue.

>> 30 你是愿意当leader还是当follower
>>> Of course, I would like to be the leader for the following reasons. Firstly, to be a leader definitely improves my various abilities, such as communication, organization, leadership and handling ability. These are essential to lead a team with many complex troubles. And second, in college, I always as a leader of various student unions and student associations. So I do not like to be regulated by others, the only way to get rid of this status is to be the leader and regulate others myself.
Frankly speaking, although to be a leader is a hard work, it will has a great influence on the future career. 

>> 31.Which one do you think is better to help do research, internet or academic books?
>>> As far as I am concerned, relying on academic books is a best way to do research. What I want to say is the internet could serve as a starting point, helps you to zero in the material you need, but that you would almost certainly have to access other sources to do the research well such as the academic books. Cuz academic books have more detail information you need, on the contrary, internet only has a brief abstraction and most of the time, you should pay to get the good stuff.

>> 32.人是被电视，报纸，广播上的信息影响得多，还是家人朋友得影响多
>>> in my opinion, it is my family members and friends who influence me most. The information provided by newspaper, TV, radio or other formats of media can just let us know what has happened and only equip us with knowledge, they are incapable of giving me spiritual satisfaction. Speaking of some issues, we need more specific suggestions. Family members and friends can offer us this kind of information and can give us adequate help to meet the issues. 

>> 33.理想的职业
>>> Personally speaking, the most ideal career for me is to be a teacher. I have dreamed to be a teacher since I was still in middle school. The reasons for why this profession really attracts me is well, firstly, I am proud of to share knowledge with others and I can do my best to assist others to realize their dreams. As my father always tell me to do something constructive and beneficial for ordinary people. On the other hand, teaching is my cup of tea also this is a challenge profession to me. It can not only improve my various abilities but also help me to conquer the stage fright. 

>> 34.Take a long vacation or several short vacations in a year?
>>> in my opinion, I definitely prefer to take a long vacation instead of several short ones. If the vacation is as long as about two month, I can separate it into two parts. In the first part, I will go abroad, visiting the place I have dreamed all the time,for example yellow stone park. When I get back, I still have one or two weeks to have a rest before go back to work. So I would not be very tired and be able to keep energetic while working.

>> 36.Do you prefer to study alone on work assignment from class or to study in group?
>>> in my opinion, I would prefer to study in a group on work assignment from class. 
Cuz firstly, working in a group means we can have partners to cooperate with and that will increase the working efficiency. Besides, we can discuss with each other, with the purpose of expand our scope of knowledge. Finally, we can encourage each other to attain the goal especially when there are difficulties. Of course, the process of cooperation could develop our sense of teamwork and team spirit. 

>> 37.你的目标是什么
>>> In the future, I want to be an excellent software engineer to optimize VR products. First, I like to create and design products according to my own wishes and ideas. Second, I prefer writing code to dealing with people. Programs can give me the most real feedback. Third, I think software engineers will promote the progress and development of the future society, and this job will give me a sense of achievement.

>> 38.描述一次challenging experience，以及如何解决这个challenge
>>> Frankly speaking, what the most challenging experience for me is as a leader in my brand management assignment group. This assignment required us to build a virtual brand. As a leader, I pay a significant amount of energy on this assignment. I allocated task to my group members and discussed issue with them. This process of learning definitely develops my abilities such as leadership, coordination and problem handling.  

>> 39.应该选择工作好找的专业还是应该选择自己感兴趣的专业
>>> I surely prefer to choose a major which is easy to find a good job in the future, like finance or marketing for example. No one could deny that the most common reason for us attending university is to get well prepared for a good job in the future. So whether or not it will lead to a good job, should be put into the first place when we choose our major. If we find a good job with decent payment, we can use the money we have earned from it to satisfy our interests then. 

>> 40.喜欢看那种电影,为什么:Comedy, drama…
>>> Realistic films. Because this kind of film can let me have a lot of reflection on life, and also make me see the lives of many different people in real life. Most of the best films in Oscar are realistic films, because this kind of films has a realistic basis, which can cause the whole society to pay attention to an event, optimize and reform a policy and law. These practical meanings are worth discussing.

>> 31 
>> 32 
>> 33 
>> 34 
>> 35 
>> 36 
>> 37 
>> 38 
>> 39 
>> 40 
>> 41
>> 42
>> 43
>> 44
>> 45
>> 46
>> 47
>> 48
>> 49
>> 50
>> 51
>> 52
>> 53
>> 54
>> 55
>> 56
>> 57
>> 58
>> 59
>> 60
>> 61
>> 62
>> 63
>> 64
>> 65
>> 66
>> 67
>> 68
>> 69
>> 70
>> 71
>> 72
>> 73
>> 74
>> 75
>> 76
>> 77
>> 78
>> 79
>> 80
>> 
托福口语
45s的回答只需要7-8句话
 
托福口语一二题答题结构
第一句话给观点。第二句话原因一。第三四句话解释原因一。第五句话原因二，第六七句话解释原因二。第八句话总结。
 

